What are the components of the Apache POI API.
Apache POI API is made of many components.
POIFS is the most stable and the oldest part of the API.
It is the foundation to all other components,
and it can work with the OLE compound document format,
which means it can work with all types of Microsoft Office files.
HSSF is the component that can work specifically with
Microsoft Excel files with the XLS extension.
HWPF is the part of the API,
which is therefore working with Microsoft Office files with the
DOC extension. Then the HSLF component handles Microsoft
PowerPoint files that has an extension of PPT.
Since Apache POI now supports the Office Open XML file format, there are
components in the API like XSSF that supports reading and writing from and to
Microsoft Excel documents with the file extension XLSX. And XWPF, using which it
is possible to handle Microsoft Word documents that have a file extension of
DOCX. And also, the XSLF component to work specifically with Microsoft
PowerPoint documents with an extension of PPTX. Talking about the features of
Apache POI. Using this API, it is possible to create,
read, and write Microsoft Office documents from your Java application.
It offers stream‑based processing that is especially good for
processing large files because it utilizes less memory.
It also offers an extended component of XSSF named SXSSF that is
capable of working with very large Excel sheets,
which often would be a requirement in Java applications.
Furthermore,
the API has great support for features like working with Excel formulas, cell styling, data validations, and elements like images and hyperlinks.